I'm still getting the error that my products don't seem to have a length
even though I'm fairly confident that this code should retrieve my products
but what is wrong with that code?
Well I am returning data here
in both cases
but keep in mind that this is asynchronous code.
So my fetch all method here executes this line, executes this line
and as you learned, it simply registers this callback in its event emitter registry to put it like this
but then it just finishes with this function and this function itself does not return anything.
These return statements here belong to this inner function here, not to this outer function,
so fetch all does not return anything,
it returns undefined therefore and hence in my view, in the shop.ejs file, if I try to access the length
on my products, I try to access length on undefined
and I get an error.
So this is the issue
and how can I fix this then?
There are multiple ways of fixing this,
for now I will simply accept an argument in fetch all and that's a callback
and that actually allows me to pass a function into fetch all which fetch all will execute
once it is done, so that the thing calling fetch all can pass a function
it is then aware of being called which holds the data I want to return.
Sounds complex?
Let me show you how it works.
So I will receive a function here,
this argument will hold a function and therefore instead of returning an array, here I will have a callback
where I pass an empty array,
so I execute this argument as a function to which I pass an empty array
and I will do the same down there, just not with an empty array but here I will have a callback where I
pass my parsed json data.
So I do call this callback and this allows me to go to my controller where I do call fetch all and there,
I now simply have to pass in a function where I know that I eventually will get my products, like this
and therefore I don't need to store it here because this fetch all function will not return anything.
Instead here I simply create my own callback process and I render in that function I pass to fetch all
once I know that fetching all products is done and I receive the products here because that is exactly
the argument I passed to the callback
in fetch all because the callback argument here will refer to this anonymous function I'm passing into
fetch all.
It's the same logic
read file uses here,
just that we didn't defined read file on our own but read file
also takes a callback
and here we pass in the function read file should execute for us once it's done.
We do the same
just that we write both sides
now. We have fetch all and fetch all takes a function
it should execute once it's done and once it's done, we get the products,
thanks to our own implementation of fetch all
and we then render our response with those products.
And with that if we save that and now we reload this page, we do see the products here and we do of course
see all the products we had in the past as well as any new products we add
and there is a little styling page I see.
But this is how this works
and now it's still not a database but it's better than this in array storage and it already shows us why we
might want to use such a model.
It's not super complex code but it clearly is code that belongs to this data, to this model and therefore
it's outsourced into its own separate file.